Welcome to Understanding the
Xcode Project Management and
Build System Session 919.
If this is not the flight
you planned to take,
we recommend you deplane now.
I'm Chris Espinosa.
I'm the manager of the Xcode
Core Technologies Group.
We have a fairly short
agenda for you today,
long on content, short on bullet items.
I'm going to start with a brief
review of the Xcode build process
and the Xcode project architecture.
Those of you who are old hands
at Xcode or have been using Xcode
3.1 for a while may wish to just,
you know, twitter your disrespect for
a little while and sit it out
until the interesting part comes.
Those of you who are new to Xcode,
this is a really important part of the
presentation because it'll get us all.
We'll get you all on some
common terminological grounds.
People coming from different traditions
and different environments may mean
completely different things when
I say target or project or build
setting or environment variable.
I'm going to try to get us
on some common ground so when
we get into the deep water,
you'll understand what I'm talking about.
Second is we'll do some
what's new in Xcode 3.1.
Those of you who have the Xcode 3.1 seed,
there are a lot of these that
are covered in the release notes,
but there's nothing like seeing it
done live on stage in front of you.
To show you what the power of
the new features really is.
And then we'll go into
some advanced techniques.
The main technique I'm going to
be demonstrating and describing
in some detail is how to use
cross project references,
how to cause one project to
invoke a build in another project
and to use its build products
in order to create a larger one.
How to chain multiple projects together.
We'll give a couple of demos and then
we'll start to take questions and
have a lot of time for questions.
Okay.
Let's start with the brief review.
When I say project,
I mean the Xcode project,
the .Xcode file that you double-click
to open an Xcode project.
Inside the project are two things,
targets and content.
And the targets are an organizing
principle for the rest of the content.
When you build,
you don't build a project.
You build a target.
That's an important distinction.
People say, I want this project to
build this other project.
And I say, wait.
If you're saying that,
you don't have it straight in your head.
A target is what is built.
A project is simply a
container that holds targets.
The target is a collection of inputs,
source files, resource files,
and instructions on how to build those
inputs to produce a build product.
I'm going to use that term a lot,
build product.
That's what it's all about.
Every target builds a build product.
And it builds it from source files.
It builds it using rules.
It builds it using build settings.
The content is organized in a
target in a set of build phases,
and each build phase handles
a particular type of input.
There's a compile sources build phase
that builds all your source files.
There's a copy bundle resources
build phase that copies all of
the resources in your target into
the bundle in the build product.
You can create your own build phases
to run an arbitrary script in the
shell or to perform an explicit copy of
other things to other places actions.
The build phases are done in a
stepwise order depending on both
the order you place them in and
their dependency requirements.
Things may be done in different
order depending upon what
depends on what other things.
Each target has its own
set of build phases,
and the contents of one,
the build product of one
target can be included in a
build phase of another target.
That's the key to using
multiple projects in Xcode.
Like I said, targets have sources,
inputs, they have rules,
and then they have settings,
build settings that tell the compiler,
the linker, the resource compiler,
how to do what it's going to do.
And those build settings are really
what you spend most of the time
adjusting when you're configuring your
Xcode project and your Xcode targets.
Each target has its own
set of build settings,
and that applies to building that target.
At the top level,
the project also has a set of
build settings that applies
generally across all of the targets.
And it's a hierarchy,
just like object-oriented programming.
The project build settings are superior,
but the target build settings can
override the project build settings.
So if you've got something
that you want to apply across
everything you're going to build,
like I want this to
build 32-bit or 64-bit,
I want this to build debug or not debug,
I want this to build my English language
version versus some other version,
you put that at your project
level and all targets inherit it.
If you have something that you want
to differ from target to target,
this target is building a static
library so it has this set of settings,
this target is building an application,
it has different settings,
this target is building a shared library,
it has different settings.
The specialization goes
at the target level.
Project build settings are superior,
but the target build
settings are inferior,
and the target build
settings are inferior.
Project level general,
target level specialization.
The number one user error with Xcode is,
"I set this build setting
and it didn't take effect."
And that's because, well,
you set it at the project level
and you already had an override
set at the target level.
So if you set a build setting
and it's not taking effect,
go to your target level and make sure
that it's set at the target level.
If not,
either set it explicitly at the target
level or take that build setting and
delete it from the target to let the
project level setting shine through.
Number one rule.
Now, this is a common mistake as well.
People use these terms loosely, project,
target, executable, and build product.
There's often a one-to-one-to-one-to-one
correspondence between these.
In fact, when you create a project
from the templates,
the stationery we provide,
you get a project,
and in that project is one target.
And that one target
creates one build product,
and that one build product corresponds
to an executable that can launch and
run and debug that build product.
And they all have the same name,
so people think they're
all the same thing.
But they're not.
They're four separate things.
The project, the target,
the build product that the target builds,
and the executable that launches and
debugs that are four separate things,
and you adjust them differently
according to what you want to do.
And I think to start with,
we'll bring up Michael Rodden,
and we'll show you the basics of
going through building a simple
Xcode project to show you what the
build is like and what the parts are.
So Michael's going to go
to the Open Recents menu.
This is the code that builds the text
edit application that's standard on
every Macintosh Mac OS X machine.
So first we're going to disclose the
project folder and take a look at
what's inside the project folder.
Michael,
if you could move it a little bit,
the window a little bit to the right
because it's being clipped on the screen.
There we go.
So you see inside the project,
the top level project object are
all of the files within the project.
And if you collapse that -- actually,
if you scroll down, down at the bottom,
there is a folder called products.
You open that up.
And that is a proxy,
a representative of what our final
build product is going to be.
Textedit.app.
That's what we intend to build.
Now I want to show you how
we're going to build that.
The way we build it is that in
this project there is a target.
One target called Textedit.
Textedit is represented with, you know,
a kind of A with a green check mark.
The green check mark means
it's the active target.
It's what's going to be built
when I click the build button.
If you disclose that
target and open it up,
you see it's build phases.
It compiles sources.
It copies bundle resources.
It links the binaries with the libraries.
And it even runs a
little script at the end.
Each one of those is a
step with certain inputs.
You can see the inputs by disclosing,
for example, the compile sources.
It says it compiles 12 sources.
Those are the 12 source
files it compiles.
Okay?
So this is the structure of a
project in the build system.
Now to adjust the build
settings in an Xcode project,
you double click the target.
And this is the table of
build settings for that.
It's a rather long table.
If you scroll it down,
you'll see that there are several
hundred options that you can set for all
kinds of things going on in that target.
And that's why it's useful to have a
little filter bubble at the top where you
type something and it'll narrow it down
to just the ones that you care about.
One of the things that we're
going to talk about later is,
for example, the deployment target.
It's which version of
the operating system.
So rather than search through it,
why don't you just type DEPL.
Oh, that narrows it down a little bit.
Deployment target.
There we go.
Compiler default.
It's in bold because it's
defined at this level.
And by compiler default,
that means it's going to be whatever
it is for this operating system.
We're running on 10.5 here,
so it means we're going
to build for 10.5.
[Transcript missing]
When we build the target,
it creates the build product,
and then it'll create,
and then if we want
to launch or debug it,
we control that with this executable.
You double-click that,
and you get a panel with some
tabs for arguments and debugging.
And you can see in arguments,
for example,
if you want to add arguments to
be passed at the command line,
if you have argc and argv in your main,
that's where you pass those.
If you're looking at environment
variables and you want to set them,
you set them there.
So these are how you control how the
application is launched after it's built.
But you can see that the project,
the target, the build product,
and the executable that runs
it are four separate things.
Okay,
now we're going to start building it.
So you open up the build results window.
Okay.
from that menu which is way
up there in the ceiling.
And this is the build results window,
and it's empty because, well,
we haven't built anything.
So first thing we're going
to do is just click build.
And you can see that each
of our build steps... Oh,
you didn't have that checked, okay.
Want to clean it?
Oh, there we go.
You can see each of the build steps...
Each build phase has
a collection of steps,
and each step is listed there.
And some of them have warnings.
That's fine.
It's not our code.
Each one of those lines has behind
it a whole lot of what went on to
apply for that input to that target,
the settings in that target's build
settings inspector to that operation.
And we're going to show you how to do it.
Open up a text edit window.
There we go.
We happen to have one handy.
And just drag and drop one of
those compiling lines into it.
So that's the text where if you
were in a make file or if you were
executing this from the command line,
this is the command that you'd issue to
the GCC compiler to compile that line.
It's a whole lot of stuff going on,
and it's mainly providing the
header and library search paths,
the framework link paths,
the build settings, the warnings,
the optimizations,
all of the architectures,
all the controls you want.
If you've got something
wrong with your build,
if you don't know what's going on,
go look at this because all of the
information literally is in this line.
You may not be able to understand it,
but if you've got a build that's
working and a build that's not working,
compare those two.
The difference will be there,
I guarantee you.
And if you're filing something
on Xcode users at list.apple.com
or filing a bug reporter report,
this is what we need to
tell you what's going on.
Now, this is line by line.
It could be very tedious
to copy everything out.
So we have a build transcript
hidden under a little button,
the third one in,
and it shows you the complete build
transcript of the entire build.
This can be several hundred
K to a megabyte of text.
For every step, for every build phase,
in every target that you build,
the complete and detailed
instructions of how it built are here.
And if you do the
command line Xcode build,
this is what you see
spewing out at the console.
Except in Xcode 3.1,
we give you a nice summary of
what the errors were at the end.
That's a nice touch.
If you look at one of the compile lines,
you can see, for example,
the find it in there.
Oh, we're using compiler
default so it wasn't set,
right?
Yeah.
So when we showed you the build
setting for the deployment target,
the value there is passed in,
if we had set it to something,
it would be passed in a dash M Mac value.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so we'll come back to the build
process after we talk a little bit
about what's new in Xcode 3.1 because
I want to demonstrate those to you.
There are six new things in
Xcode 3.1 I want to talk about.
They are all about,
they're mainly around the addition of
SDKs to support iPhone development.
Okay?
And everything that we're going
to talk about and show applies
both to Mac OS X development
and to iPhone development.
The important difference between
Xcode 3.1 and previous versions
of Xcode is that the tool chain,
the compilers, the linkers,
all of the things that are
actually used to build code,
are moving into the SDKs
from the native system.
The iPhone uses a different chip,
and so all of the tools to
target the iPhone's chip are
actually in the iPhone's SDK,
not in Xcode itself.
We're making Xcode a
much more generalized,
portable,
pluggable IDE so that if we come
out with a new architecture,
with a new platform, with a new chip,
and we have a whole new set of compilers,
that's just another
SDK you drop into Xcode.
And we'll show you how we do that.
[Transcript missing]
Those of you who've been with us
for a while know that the biggest
change with Xcode 2.5 and Xcode 3.0
was to make the developer
directory self-contained.
Before Xcode 2.5, when you installed the
Xcode tools in your system,
they went into the root
level of the system,
and they were there,
and they were immutable,
and they replaced everything
that went there before,
and you couldn't use a previous
or a later version of Xcode.
Starting with Xcode 2.5 on
Tiger and Xcode 3.0 on Leopard,
we made the developer folders
completely self-contained and
independent of each other.
So you could have Xcode 2.5 and 3.0,
for example,
side-by-side on the Leopard machine,
and we've even extended that to 3.1.
So you can have on one machine 2.5, 3.0,
and 3.1 all together next to each other,
and their tool chains and
their SDKs and their IDEs and
everything else is self-contained.
Everything is distinct
and self-contained,
so you launch one Xcode,
you get its tools,
you launch a different Xcode,
you use its tools.
But we've gone a step
further with Xcode 3.1.
With 3.0, the tools, the compilers,
and everything are right there in the
top level of the Xcode developer folder.
But in Xcode 3.1 and
moving on in the future,
like I said,
we're moving the tools into the SDKs.
So there are several SDKs
in each developer folder
for 10.4 and 10.5 and 10.6,
and those nominally contain the headers
and the libraries that you use to build
for that version of the operating system.
But now,
They also contain specific tools for
the platform that you're targeting.
So, for example,
the iPhone SDK doesn't just have a
library folder with its frameworks in it.
It also has user bin and GCC in
its own GCC compiler that targets
the chip that's in the iPhone.
So, this is really important because
this means as we go further,
you're going to be able to add more
tools and customize tool chains just by
building them into an SDK and dropping
it into Xcode rather than waiting for us
to do a turn of the Xcode architecture.
That's going to be very important
for scalability in the future.
SDKs and deployment targets are
a really favorite topic and one
that's easily confused in Xcode.
There are a lot of SDKs now
and a lot of different target
platforms that you can develop for.
And what you want to do when you set
up a target in your Xcode project
is you want to decide two things.
First, what's the earliest version
of the OS I want to run on?
We recommend that you
periodically leave 10.1,
10.2, and 10.3 users behind.
If you're building for Snow Leopard,
consider supporting Leopard
and perhaps even Tiger users.
That is called your deployment target.
You set that in a pop-up in
your build setting inspector.
You say,
"If my deployment target is 10.4,
my code will work on all 10.4
machines and later." But you have a
second decision to make because you
don't want to bind yourself to only
the features available in 10.4.
Especially if you're
running on 10.5 and 10.6,
you may want to say, "Well, yeah,
I will support
"I want to take advantage of these new
APIs that are available in Leopard."
Then you build against the Leopard SDK.
If you pick an SDK,
the deployment target by
default is that SDK's version.
If you build against
the 10.4 SDK by default,
you're deploying for 10.4.
If you build against
the 10.5 SDK by default,
you're deploying to 10.5.
And of course,
an application built for a specific
version of the operating system is
going to continue to run on later
versions of the operating system,
so far as the operating system supports
the chipset and the language and
everything that that was written for.
But it won't take advantage
of the new features.
In order to take advantage of
the new features of an SDK,
you have to build against
the SDK for that platform.
And then what happens?
Well, if I build against the 10.5 SDK to
take advantage of 10.5 features,
what do I do about the 10.4 users?
Well, what happens is that all of the
APIs that are not available in 10.4
When your program loads,
they're replaced with
null function pointers.
And your job at runtime is to determine
whether or not the function you want
to call is available and skip around
it if it's a null function pointer
or not available and use it if it is.
That's the way to write an
application that launches on 10.4
and shows 10.4 functionality,
but also launches on 10.5 and takes
advantage of new 10.5 features.
Okay?
This is going to be true of
the iPhone platforms as well.
The deployment target setting,
which used to be called
Mac OS X Deployment Target,
but has been cleverly
renamed Deployment Target,
now controls either
Mac OS X or iPhone deployment.
We just swizzle it to the right
value to pass to whichever
compiler we happen to be invoking.
So if you build with a deployment
target for iPhone 2.0 against either
the iPhone 2.0 or Simulator 2.0 SDK,
you will run on 2.0 and
whatever later versions.
Since we don't really have backwards
compatibility to the 1.0 because we
don't have a development model for 1.0,
we don't have iPhone deployment
versions earlier than that.
So we don't have a deployment model
for 1.0 or Simulator 2.0 right now.
But the same mechanism will take effect.
As we add more iPhone SDKs,
you'll use that in the
same way you're using the
Mac OS X Deployment Target and SDKs.
Now, if you've got multiple SDKs,
or if you've got an application
that you're building against
the 10.4u or 10.5 SDK,
and you want to see what it's
like on 10.6 Snow Leopard,
or if you've got a core piece of
functionality that you're building
for Mac OS and you want to say,
see, you know, it's just links against,
you know,
foundation and core foundation and
maybe a couple of other frameworks.
Can this build for the iPhone?
Used to be that you'd have to
go into your target settings
and change the base SDK and save
that and run it and rebuild it.
And if you have multiple targets,
you'd have to do that for every target.
And then you don't want to commit that
to your repository because you don't
want all of your coworkers to get that.
Right now we have an active
SDK pop-up in the toolbar.
You can add it to your toolbar or
it's part of the overview toolbar that
you can add to your default toolbar.
And what this does is this
sets a temporal override.
This is important.
It's a temporal override to the SDK.
It does not change your project.
Your project settings
will still be unchanged.
If you close your project,
if you commit it to the repository,
that won't be changed.
It's only a user interface feature
that lies to the build system and says,
you think you're building with 10.4u,
but the user said build
with 10.5 just to see.
But the effect is that
everything will build with 10.5.
There's also a value in that
pop-up for project settings,
which is I'm going to build this project.
I want to build it with what it
says it wants to be built with.
that's a useful thing to do.
The Active SDK is really useful in a
try before you buy if you want to see
what your project is going to behave
like in Snow Leopard or see what your
Mac project is like in the iPhone world.
It's also the crucial control
you use to switch back and forth
between building for the iPhone SDK,
the iPhone device,
and the iPhone simulator.
Those are different SDKs.
They have different tool chains.
They have different platforms.
They have different code bases.
They actually build for
different architectures.
So it's important to switch back and
forth with that pop-up in the SDK rather
than have to drill down all the way in
the inspector to see what's going on.
Last topic is weak frameworks.
I told you a little bit about what
happens if your deployment target
is set earlier than your SDK.
For any given framework
that's on both platforms,
any new APIs in the new framework will
be replaced with null pointers when
you're launching on the older system.
That's how you can write one piece
of code that launches on both and it
takes advantage of new functionality
of present and skips around null
pointers or crashes on the old system.
What about whole new frameworks?
What if you want to write something that
takes advantage of OpenCL on Snow Leopard
but OpenCL is not available on Leopard?
What you do is you bring
that framework into your
application but you mark it weak.
That means when Xcode goes to link it,
it says,
"I'm going to link against this and
I'm going to desire it at runtime but
not expect it at runtime." Normally,
you build against frameworks,
you compile against your headers,
you link against them and when
your application goes to load,
it has to find those frameworks in
order to fix up all of the references.
If a framework is missing,
your application will
just not launch at all.
But if you mark that framework
weak when you build it,
And you compile against a weak framework.
When you launch, if it's missing,
your application will launch,
but all of the function
pointers to it will be null.
It's even better than that,
because the compiler doesn't expect
a framework not to be present,
so it's going to assume that those
function pointers could never be null,
even though there are,
so your checks against null
function pointers are going to
be optimized out of your code.
So what you have to do when
you're using weak frameworks is
you have to do a secondary check.
You have to use a DYLD call,
or you have to look at a
version number to figure out
what system you're running on,
whether that framework is present,
and jump around large bodies of code,
or even conditionally, you know,
to even go to a different
module or plugin according
to what OS you're running on.
It gives you the flexibility,
but there is a little more work you have
to do in your code in order to do it.
to build against a weak framework.
The way you control weak
frameworks is pretty easy.
When you add the framework,
there's a way to check to
say whether it's weak or not.
You can go into the link binaries
with libraries build phase,
select that, you see the detail view,
and there's a column in the
detail view called role.
And in that role,
you can change any framework
linkages to be required or weak,
according to whether you
want it required or weak.
Chris Espinosa
Finally, we've made some changes in the
way we deal with architectures.
The main issue with architectures is
that when you ship products to users,
you want them to run on as broad a
number of architectures as possible.
At least PowerPC and Intel,
and if you've got a 64-bit application,
you want PowerPC, Intel,
and 64-bit PowerPC and 64-bit Intel as
well for the Leopard platform.
[Transcript missing]
Once again, let's bring up Michael Rodden
and show you how that all works.
For this demo,
we're going to use a project
that we call Ytap Support.
We took the Ytap
Hello, everyone.
I'm Chris Espinosa,
and I'm the founder of
the Mac OS X Frameworks.
We're going to build it
into a static library,
and we've configured this project so
it can build either for the iPhone SDK,
either the device or the simulator,
or for Mac OS X.
So this is going to be a cross-platform
static library that can be built and
included in multiple applications.
So first,
let's go look at the Ytap support target.
It's a target just like we saw before.
We go to its build settings.
Now look at its architectures.
Pop the architectures value.
It says standard 32-bit universal.
Okay.
It doesn't say exactly what it is.
I can go in and find out if I want.
But that's going to be a value
that's going to persist over time.
If we change what the definition
of standard architectures are,
if we, for example,
start building on Spark machines,
we'll just add Spark to the list
of standard architectures and
you'll inherit that for free.
Very valuable thing.
Now go look at the base SDK.
Right now, this project is configured
for Mac OS X 10.5 SDK.
If you change that to
the iPhone simulator,
Well, notice that standard architectures
has now changed to iPhone
simulator standard architecture,
which is i386.
A Mac OS X application, by default,
is two-way FAT, universal.
But a simulator application, by default,
is only x86, i386,
because that's the only
platform the simulator runs on.
Okay?
Now,
if we look at the debug configuration,
that's what we're looking at now.
Notice the build active architecture
only checkbox is checked.
If you switch to the
release configuration...
You'll see that it's unchecked.
That means that if our
architecture is multiple values,
if we're building universal,
in our release configuration,
it will always build
multiple architectures,
but in our debug configuration,
it's only going to build
one for quick turnaround.
Okay?
Now we want to see some of
the linker specifications,
so just let's type in linker.
And notice other linker flags.
See the lines below it?
It's got a disclosure arrow.
We've got different frameworks
being configured for different
sides of this static library.
If we're building for any Mac OS X, well,
we want to link against Cocoa.
But if we're building for any
iPhone device or simulator,
we want to link against UIKit.
And so we just have per SDK variants
on the linker flags in order to
bring in the different frameworks
for the different configurations.
Correspondingly, in the source code,
there's a pound if iPhone
that imports UIKit.
Or pound imports Cocoa,
depending upon which
it's being built for.
Okay?
So if we build this,
if we open up the build
results window and build it,
and we're building for the 10.5 SDK,
yeah.
So we'll build this and if
you can open up the transcript
or just actually just hover,
this is a new feature,
just hover and wait.
And it shows us a tool tip saying
what that step was built for and
it says active architecture i386,
active SDK 10.5 SDK.
So we know that we just built
all those files for the SDK.
But if you go to the pop-up up there,
the overview pop-up,
Change that to simulator
iPhone OS 2.0 and then rebuild.
Everything gets rebuilt.
You hover over it.
and you see that it's building for the
Active SDK iPhone OS Simulator SDK.
Now, here's the important part.
If you open up the transcript,
Here you can probably use
your fancy control zoom in.
Oh, there we go.
So show the, yeah, this is the fun part.
Notice the path to GCC here.
It's getting GCC 4.0, not from user bin,
which is where a make file would get it,
and not from slash
developer slash user bin,
which is where Xcode 3.0 would get it,
but it's getting it from
the iPhone simulator SDK.
The simulator SDK carries its own
copy of GCC with it that goes all
the way back to the early slides
that I showed where the simulators,
where the SDKs are self-contained
development environments,
and when you switch in the UI,
you're actually switching
your entire tool chain out
from under you just like that.
Okay?
Thank you, Michael.
Thank you.
So that's what's new in Xcode 3.1.
It's mainly a lot of features to
ease development against multiple
SDKs and to build projects that
can build against multiple SDKs.
And when you build a project
against multiple SDKs,
or even when you build a moderately
complex project just for the Mac OS,
you're probably not going to have
that mental model of one project,
one target, one build product,
one executable to launch it.
You're going to have multiple projects.
The projects may have multiple targets.
The targets will have many
build phases and steps.
Each of them may create
multiple build products,
and then they'll want to use
each other's build products.
They'll want to bring them in,
copy them into their folders,
link against them,
do all sorts of complex things.
Most of this historically has been
left as an exercise to the reader.
We're going to walk you through it now
and show you the general techniques you
need to use to make this work in Xcode.
First of all,
we're going to talk about subprojects.
There are no subprojects.
If you are thinking of sub-projects,
you are thinking in a way that will
get you into trouble down the road.
Because Xcode projects have a
complex and networked relationships.
They are not strict subordinates.
Any tree is a subset of a graph,
of course.
So you can set up any
tree of projects you want.
And if you want projects to act
like sub-projects of other projects,
you can do that.
But Xcode allows you to create
multiple branching dependencies
among projects so that you can
share code in really powerful ways.
So if you are thinking that you are
going to make this project a sub-project,
you are going to have to
make it a sub-project.
If you are thinking that you
are going to make this project a
sub-project of another project,
try to erase that thought
from your mind and say,
"I am going to refer to this project
from another project." And that will
open up a lot more possibilities
for what you can do in the future.
[Transcript missing]
First, the way to establish a
cross-project reference.
It's pretty simple.
You have project A, you have project B,
you drag project B into project A.
That's pretty simple.
That does nothing.
It just lets Project A know
that Project B exists.
One of the things it does do is
it shows you the build products
of Project B inside the Groups and
Files tree of Project A so that
you can use them in other places,
but it's up to you to say where.
So the second step is how
to use the build projects.
The most common thing
If project A builds a small part,
or if project B builds a small part and
project A brings that in as a static
library or a shared library or something,
you need to move that into a build phase.
So normally what you do is you just
take that build product icon in the
groups and files tree that just appeared
when you dragged in the project,
and you drag it down into your
product's build phase and add it.
That's the basic technique for
making an application link with
a framework that you've built.
But you're not done yet.
If the framework is in a
well-known common place,
your application will work.
But if you want to embed that
framework within your application,
you need to make sure that
whenever you build the application,
the framework is up to date.
Whenever you build the framework,
it reminds the application that
it needs to relink with it.
That means you need to
create a dependency.
You go to the target.
The target has a list of dependencies.
It has a list of other targets
that need to be up to date
when that target is built.
You go to the target pane.
You go to the direct dependencies panel.
You click the plus button.
And the other targets in that project,
including the ones from
project references,
will show up.
You select the one that you care about,
and you add it to the list.
When that framework target, for example,
is added to the direct dependency
list of the application,
that means when you
build the application,
it will automatically make sure
that that framework is up to
date and build it if necessary.
If you update and rebuild the framework
and it's newer than your application,
when you rebuild your application,
it will relink with that framework.
You have to create this
dependency manually.
Otherwise, it will just take the latest
version of that framework,
no matter whether it's up to date or not.
That is a great way to get build errors,
which is to forget to
create the dependency,
to make a change in your framework,
to make a corresponding
change in your application,
and then to rebuild your application.
Because without that,
without having had the framework rebuilt,
the application won't be picking up
the latest version of the framework.
Create the dependency, and it will.
[Transcript missing]
You can do better than that, though.
You can build one framework that is
shared among multiple applications.
As long as all of the applications
have the same relative path
to refer to that framework,
you can deliver, say,
a folder called applications,
which is parallel to a
folder called libraries,
and all those applications can use all
the libraries in the library folder.
If you look at the
Xcode Developer folder,
that is exactly how we structure it.
Developer Library has a lot of
shared frameworks that are shared
among all of the various pieces of
the Xcode development environment.
The way we do that is with the
dynamic library install name on the
frameworks using the RPath methodology.
RPath means whoever is invoking me,
give me a relative path to them.
So on each shared framework target,
you define its dynamic library.
The dynamic library install
name as relative to the RPath.
And then on every application that
wants to invoke those frameworks,
you set its run path search path.
This is where it defines its
RPath to its framework directory,
either within itself or
relative to a common location.
You can come up after and
ask us details on this.
There are a couple of good resources
on the web to tell you how to do this.
We went through this in an exclusive way.
excruciating detail last year at WWDC.
So you can go look at my presentation
with Rick Ballard's demo from
last year on ADC on iTunes and
see this in excruciating detail.
This is the primary thing you have to do
if you have multiple applications sharing
multiple frameworks in a common location.
Now, the techniques I've showed you,
making a cross-project reference,
creating a target dependency
in a cross-project reference,
putting the build product into a
link phase or something like that,
putting the build product into
a copy bundle resources phase,
these can be used for all
sorts of architectures,
all sorts of layouts of your project.
If you have a static library that
you're using in multiple projects,
you can build it once and then
just include it as if it were
a pre-built binary in multiple
projects using this technique.
If you have an aggregate target,
you can create an aggregate target which
is just a target that consists of other
targets being built in a specific order.
You can use this technique to make
the aggregate target dependent upon
all of the other targets built in
a particular order if you really
need to build something like that.
You can create a project that has an
application and a bunch of plug-ins,
and part of the app needs to be built,
and then the plug-ins need
to be linked against it,
and then the plug-ins need to
be copied into the application.
You use this technique to do that.
But once again,
the best way to get the hang of how
this works is to actually see it.
So we're going to take that
static library we built,
and we're going to build it
into an iPhone application,
and then we're going to build it
into a Mac OS X application as well.
So we're going to get
the Ytap application.
This is the iPhone
sample code that you get,
except we've extracted all
of the common code out of it.
And what we're going to do,
the first thing is we're going to take
that Ytap support project that we built,
we're going to drag the project
icon from it and go drop it.
And just say yes to the sheet.
All the defaults are correct.
And now you see that the Ytap support
project is a cross-project reference
in the Ytap application project.
You turn it down, and you see it's build
product right there.
Yeah, can you drag?
There we go.
Okay.
So you see Ytap is the
application project,
Ytap support is the
cross-project reference,
and the libytapsupport.a is the
build product that we're building.
Now, um,
If you go down to the target,
open that up, this is our one target,
you see the link binary
with libraries build phase.
Let's, yeah, you just drag that down,
drop it in.
And that has made it so that we're going
to link the application with the static
library pre-built by the other project.
Now that's great,
but that implies that that app,
that static library
has already been built.
If we want to force it to be built,
we've got to create
the target dependency.
So we double click our target,
go to the general pane.
Now first,
I want to take a little digression here.
I want to show you a new cool thing.
How many people hate how you have to add
frameworks to an application in Xcode?
Not as many as I'd expected,
but there's an all-new way.
There's a linked libraries pane
here that shows you what all the
libraries you're linked with now,
and you see the required.
That's the pop-up for required and weak.
with the magical third column
that NS TableView gives us.
If you press the plus button,
This is a list of all of the
frameworks in your current SDK,
or all of your SDKs.
[Transcript missing]
Now we're using the... Did you
build the library for the... Okay,
that's simulator.
Looks like it's not finding the
headers in the common build directory.
Luckily, we have our build system
expert here to debug this.
Make sure that the common
build directory is set up,
because that's my next slide.
I'd prefer that we save
questions for the end.
We're going to have a lot
of time for questions.
Actually,
if we can go back to the slides,
I'll just finish up with the slides.
Oh, he did it.
Never mind.
Yay.
Okay.
Back to the demo machine.
So this is the Ytap application.
Run that one in client.
Okay, run that one in server,
that's fine.
Okay, this is an application that
does nothing by itself.
So now what we're going to do
is open up another project.
This is a Mac OS X application
that's written to be like the
Ytap application on the iPhone,
but it's a Mac OS X app that
uses the same static library.
And so we're going to go
through the same steps.
We're going to add the
cross-project reference.
We're going to disclose it,
find that static library,
add that static library,
Now we double click the target,
create the cross project reference.
You do this enough,
it really gets to be second nature.
And then build and go.
Now this is the one where
it had the stale reference.
I think that it's getting the
file from the wrong location.
Notice how he's doing his forensics.
We should have made this a
debugging the build system session.
Now this worked last time.
I'll say, let's go back to the slides,
and he'll say, I've got it working.
So, two project reference tips.
One is that if you have multiple
projects that are building build products
that each other need to refer to,
the best and perhaps the only
successful way to do it is if you
have a shared build directory.
If you saw when he went
back to Xcode Preferences,
to the Build tab,
and made sure that we were
using a shared build directory,
that is the way the projects
communicate within each other.
All of the build products are
in a flat build directory.
That's fairly important to maintain.
The second thing is that if
you have projects that are
referring to each other,
they need to have a consistent
set of configuration names.
Because when you build the debug
configuration of one project and it has
a dependency on a... another target,
it's going to go build the debug
configuration of that target.
If you have one project
where your configurations are
development and deployment,
and another project where your
configurations are debug and release,
they're not going to know how
to line up with each other.
So, it's really important to keep your
configuration names in a coherent space.
So,
while he's wrapping up on the great demo
that I put together and subjected him
to running through when it was broken,
I want to recap what we've done.
We did a brief review, projects, targets,
build phases.
And executables and build products are
separate from products and targets.
Common terminology.
Lot new in Xcode 3.1.
Support for weak frameworks,
support for active architecture,
support for choosing
your SDK in the pop-up,
choosing your active
architecture in the pop-up,
the new overview SDK,
some nice little things like being able
to see the SDK and the architecture
in a tooltip on every build step.
And of course,
the whole structure of SDKs which
now have the build tools embedded
within them for long-term flexibility.
Important things like how to set
the deployment target and the
SDK in relation to each other so
that you can deploy on one version,
but take advantage of
features in new versions.
And then advanced techniques of
creating cross-project references of
using the build products in different
build phases of the model of the
model of the model of the model
of creating project dependencies and
then how to set up the dynamic library
references so if you embed shared
libraries or frameworks in applications,
the applications can reach
in and use those frameworks.
Okay?
Oh, he's got it now.
Now we can go back.
This is the big finish.
Build succeeded.
And that one is client.
So now we've got two applications,
and they're both connected.
One running on the Mac,
one running in the simulator.
And if you click on one,
it sends a signal over
Wi-Fi inside the Mac to the other.
So this is the same code built
once for the static library that is
being deployed both to the Mac side
with a Cocoa application and to
the iPhone simulator side with
an iPhone Cocoa Touch application.
Common code using common frameworks with
only slight differences between the two
being built twice with cross-project
references and target references.
Okay.
And with that,
Tavares Ford is going to come up,
or Michael Jurowicz is going to
come up and lead some Q&A for us.